# Quantum-Fourier-Iterative-Amplitude-Estimation
Code of the paper: "Quantum Fourier Iterative Amplitude Estimation", arXiv: 2305.01686 by Jorge J. Martínez de Lejarza, Michele Grossi, Leandro Cieri, Germán Rodrigo: https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.01686

Abstract:

Monte Carlo integration is a widely used numerical method for approximating integrals, which is often computationally expensive. In recent years, quantum computing has shown promise for speeding up Monte Carlo integration, and several quantum algorithms have been proposed to achieve this goal. In this paper, we present an application of Quantum Machine Learning (QML) and Grover's amplification algorithm to build a new tool for estimating Monte Carlo integrals. Our method, which we call Quantum Fourier Iterative Amplitude Estimation (QFIAE), decomposes the target function into its Fourier series using a Parametrized Quantum Circuit (PQC), specifically a Quantum Neural Network (QNN), and then integrates each trigonometric component using Iterative Quantum Amplitude Estimation (IQAE). This approach builds on Fourier Quantum Monte Carlo Integration (FQMCI) method, which also decomposes the target function into its Fourier series, but QFIAE avoids the need for numerical integration of Fourier coefficients. This approach reduces the computational load while maintaining the quadratic speedup achieved by IQAE. To evaluate the performance of QFIAE, we apply it to a test function that corresponds with a particle physics scattering process and compare its accuracy with other quantum integration methods and the analytic result. Our results show that QFIAE achieves comparable accuracy while being suitable for execution on real hardware. We also demonstrate how the accuracy of QFIAE improves by increasing the number of terms in the Fourier series. In conclusion, QFIAE is a promising end-to-end quantum algorithm for Monte Carlo integrals that combines the power of PQC with Fourier analysis and IQAE to offer a new approach for efficiently approximating integrals with high accuracy. 
